Alright, exciting tutorial ahead.
Welcome back to the course on deep learning.
Today we're talking about how do neural networks work.
Now we've laid a lot of groundwork
we've talked about how neural networks are structured,
what elements they consist of,
and even their functionality.
Today we're going to look at a real example
of how a neural network can be applied
and we're actually gonna work step-by-step
through the process of its application
so we know what's going on.
So let's have a look.
What example are we going to be talking about?
We're going to be looking at property valuation, so
we're going to look at a neural network that
takes in some parameters about a property and values it.
And the thing here, there's a small caveat
for today's tutorial,
and that is, we're not actually going to train the network.
So a very important part in neural networks
is training them up,
and we're going to look at that in the next tutorials
in this section.
For now we're going to focus on the actual application
so we're going to work with a neural network that
we're going to
pretend is already trained up.
And that will allow us to focus
on the application side of things
and not get bogged down in the training aspect.
And then we'll cover off the training
when we already know the end goal we're working towards.
Sound good?
Alright, let's jump straight into it.
So let's say we have some input parameters.
So let's say we have four parameters about the property.
We have area in squared feet,
we have the number of bedrooms,
the distance to the city in miles,
the nearest city
and the age of the property.
And all of those four are going to comprise
our input layer.
Now of course there're probably way more parameters
that define the price of a property
but for simplicity's sake
we're going to look at just these four.
Now in its very basic form, a neural network only has
an input layer and an output layer, so no hidden layers
and our output layer is the price that we're predicting.
So in this form, what these input variables would do
is they would just be weighted up by the synapses
and then the output layer would be calculated
or basically the price would be calculated
and we'd get a price.
For instance a price could be calculated as
as simple as, the weighted sum of all of the inputs.
And again here you could use pretty much any function.
You could use what we're using now,
we could use any of the activation functions
we had previously,
you could use a logistic regression,
you could use a squared function,
you could use pretty much anything here.
But the point is that you get a certain output.
And moreover, most of the machine learning algorithms
that exist can be represented in this format.
This is basically a diagrammatic representation
of how you deal with the variables, right.
By changing the weights, the formulas,
you can accomplish quite a lot
of the machine learning algorithms
that we've talked about before
and put them into this form.
And that just stands to show
how powerful neural networks are,
that even without the hidden layers
we already have a representation
that works for most other machine learning algorithms.
But in neural networks, what we do have
is an extra advantage that gives us
lots of flexibility and power
which is where that increase in accuracy comes from,
and that power is the hidden layers.
And there we go, that's our hidden layer
we've added it in
and now we're going to understand
how that hidden layer gives us that extra power.
And in fact to do that we're going to walk through
an example.
So as we agreed this neural network
has already been trained up,
and now we just going to plug in
we're going to imagine that we're plugging in a property,
and we're going to walk step-by-step
through how the neural network
will deal with the input variables
and calculate the hidden layer
and then calculate the output layer.
So let's go through this, this is going to be exciting.
We've got all four variables on the left,
and we're going to first start with the top neuron
on the hidden layer.
Now as we previously saw in the previous tutorials,
all of the neurons from the input layer
they have synapses connecting it each one of them
to the top neuron in the hidden layer.
And those synapses have weight.
Now let's agree that some weights
will have a non-zero value,
some weights will have a zero value.
Because basically not all inputs will be valid
or not all inputs will be important
for every single neuron.
Sometimes inputs will not be important.
Now here we can see two examples.
That X1 and X3,
the area and the distance to the city in miles
are important for that neuron
whereas bedrooms and age are not.
And let's think about this for a second.
Why, how would that be the case.
Why would a certain neuron be
linked to the area and the distance.
What could that mean?
Well that could mean that
normally the further away you get from the city,
the cheaper real estate becomes
and therefore the space in square feet of properties
becomes larger.
So for the same price you can get a larger property
the further away you go from the city.
That's normal, right, that makes sense.
And probably what this neuron is doing
is it is looking specifically
like a sniper, it's looking for area of properties
which have, which are not so far from the city
but have a large area.
So for their distance from the city, they have an unfair
square foot area, right.
So something that's abnormal, it's higher than average.
So they're quite close to the city but they're still large
as opposed to the other ones at the same distance.
So that neuron, again we're speculating here
but that neuron might be picking out,
laser picking out, those specific properties
and it will activate, and hence the activation function,
it will activate, it'll fire up
only when the certain criteria is met
that you know, the distance and the area of the prop,
distance to the city and the area of the property
and it performs its own calculations inside itself
and it combines those two
and as soon as certain criteria is met it fires up
and that contributes to the price in the output layer.
And therefore this neuron doesn't really care
about bedrooms and age of the property
because it's focused on that specific thing.
That's where the power of the neural network comes from
because you have many of these neurons
and we'll see just now how the other ones work.
But what I wanted to agree here is that
let's not even draw these lines for the synapses
that are not in play
so that we don't clutter up our image
that's the only reason we're not gonna draw them.
Let's just get rid of those two
and that way we will know exactly, okay,
so this neuron is focused on area and distance to the city.
As long as we agree on that let's move on to the next one.
Let's take the one in the middle.
Here we've got three parameters feeding into this neuron
so we've got the area, the bedrooms,
and the age of the property.
So what could be the reason here?
Again let's try to understand
the intuition, the thinking of this neuron.
How is this neuron thinking,
why is it picking these three parameters,
what could it be, what could have it like found in the data
so we've already established this is a trained up data set.
The training has happened a long time ago
maybe like a day ago
or somebody's already trained up this data set
now we're just applying
and we know that this neuron
through all the thousands of examples of properties
has found out that the area plus the bedrooms plus the age
combination of those parameters is important.
Why could that be the case?
For instance, maybe in that specific city, in those suburbs
that this neural network has been trained up in
perhaps there's a lot of families
with kids, with two or more children
who are looking for large properties
with lots of bedrooms but which are new.
Which are
not old properties
because maybe in that area
most of the properties are kind of like
big properties are usually old
but there's lots of modern families
and maybe there has been a socio-demographic shift
and, or maybe there's been a lot of some growth
in terms of employment and jobs for
the younger side of population
maybe just, the population demographics have changed
and now younger couples or younger families
are looking for properties
but they prefer newer properties.
So they want the age of the property to be lower.
And hence, from the training
that this neural network has undergone
it knows that when there's a property with a large area
and with lots of bedrooms
at least three bedrooms for the parents
for the first child, for the second child
for at least three bedrooms, maybe a guest room
when a new property with
higher area and lots of bedrooms
that is valued.
In that market, that is valuable.
So that neuron has picked that up
it knows that okay, so this is what I'm gonna be looking for
I don't care about the distance to the city in miles
wherever it is, as long as it has high area,
lots of bedrooms, as soon as that criteria is met
that neuron fires up
and the combination of these three parameters
and this is again, this is where the power
of the neural network is coming from
because it combines these three parameters
into a brand new parameter, into a brand attribute
that helps with the evaluation
that helps with the evaluation of the property
combines them into a new attribute
and therefore it's more precise.
So there we go that's how that neuron works.
And let's look at another one
let's look at the very bottom one.
For instance this neuron could be
could even have picked up just one parameter
it could have just picked up age
and not any of the other ones.
And how could that be the case?
Well this is a classic example of when age could mean
as we all know, the older property
is usually, it's less valuable
because it's worn out, probably the building is old
probably things are falling apart,
more maintenance is required.
So the price drops in terms of the price of the real estate
whereas a brand new building, it would be more expensive
because it's brand new.
But perhaps if a property's over a certain age
that could indicate that it's a historic property.
For instance, if a property's under 100 years old
then the older it is, the less valuable it is.
But as soon as it jumps over 100 years old
all of a sudden it becomes a historic property
because this is a property
where people used to live hundreds of years ago,
it tells a story, it's got all this history behind it
and some people like that.
Some people value that.
In fact quite a lot of people would like that
and would be proud to live in a property and
especially in the higher socioeconomic classes
they would show off to their friends or things like that.
And therefore, properties that are over 100 years old
could be deemed as historic, and therefore this neuron
as soon as it sees a property over 100 years old
it will fire up and contribute to the overall price.
And otherwise, if it's under 100 years old
then it won't even work.
And this is a good example of
the rectifier function being applied.
So here you've got a very
a zero, until a certain point,
and then let's say 100 years old
and then after 100 years old,
the older it gets, the higher the contribution
of this neuron to the overall price.
And this just a wonderful example of
very simple example of this rectifier function in action.
So there we go, that could be this neuron.
And moreover, the neural network could have even
picked up things that we wouldn't have thought of ourselves
for instance bedrooms plus distance to the city.
Maybe that's in combination somehow
contributes to the price.
Maybe it's not as strong as the other neurons
and it contributes, but it still contributes.
Or maybe it detracts from the price,
that could also be the case.
Or other things like that.
And maybe a neuron picked up all four,
a combination of all four of these parameters
and as you can see the
that these neurons, this whole hidden layer situation
allows you to increase the flexibility
of your neural network
and allows you to really look,
allows the neural network to look for very specific things
and then in combination, that's where the power comes from.
It's like that example with the ants
like an ant by itself cannot build an anthill,
but when you have 1,000 or 100,000 ants
they can build an anthill together.
And that's the situation here.
Each one of these neurons by itself cannot predict the price
but together they have superpowers
and they predict the price
and they can do quite an accurate job
if trained properly, if set up properly.
And that's what this whole course is about
in understanding how to utilize them.
There we go so
that is a step-by-step example and walkthrough
of how neural networks actually work.
I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial,
and I can't wait to see you next time.
Until then, enjoy deep learning.